From The New York Times, I'm Natalie
[music] Kitroeff. This is The Daily.
>> [music]
>> In the years since Donald Trump [music]
roared back to power, one of the most
surprising story lines of his second
term [music] has been a series of
increasingly public ruptures between the
president and the movement he created.
On everything from affordability [music]
to foreign wars, key figures on the
right are now daring to challenge
Trump's priorities and his [music]
effectiveness.
Today, my colleague Robert Draper on the
growing tensions inside the MAGA
movement and what they tell [music] us
about what the American right might look
like in a post-Trump world.
>> [music]
>> It's Thursday, December 11th.
>> Robert, hi. Welcome back to the show.
Thanks so much for having me.
So,
we're coming to you because for several
years now, you've been reporting
extensively on the right. And as a part
of that, you spent a lot of time with
some of the key figures in the MAGA
movement, some of whom have started to
openly speak out against the president.
And so, we're hoping you can help us
understand what's been happening in the
relationship between President Trump and
his movement, which until recently
looked pretty unshakable.
Yeah, in a sense, Natalie, what's taking
place is in step with what historically
has transpired with presidencies that
after a certain period, a president
begins to take on the appearance of
being a lame duck. He no longer is in
full control of the agenda and the party
begins to look at life after him. But,
typically, that has taken place after
the midterms, after a two-year period.
And so, what's really notable is that
this president is now just 10 to 11
months in, beginning to show the signs
of weakness that historically we
associate with a lame duck, when in
fact, he should not be a lame duck.
>> Right. And alongside that, it's also
notable [snorts]
that President Trump, like no other
political figure before him in recent
memory, at least, has exerted a real
stranglehold over his party. The party's
philosophy, the party's governing
ideology has been whatever President
Trump has said it will be. That has
started to change, and the fact that
people are daring, and and let's be
clear, not everyone is, but that anyone
is beginning to voice objections or take
exception to President Trump's governing
philosophy
is something very new. So, the fact that
it's happening at all, and the fact that
it's happening so early, are both
unusual features that were, I don't
think, in any way expected when this
president first took his oath in
January.
Right, it does strike me as, honestly,
stunning, because it feels as though
just a few months ago we were thinking
of this president really as as
all-powerful, as kind of invincible. He
was swept in with this mandate. He was
taking executive actions left and right.
And very quickly, you're saying he's now
being seen within his own party as
vulnerable, it sounds like. That's
right. And when President Trump took his
second oath of office, there were people
on the right proclaiming this the golden
era of America. They really believed
that nothing would be impossible with
this president. But, that began to
change, however, in the late summer,
when we began to see prominent
conservative influencers dared to go off
message from administration policy and,
in fact, outright contradict what the
administration's preferred policy was.
And so, in doing so, they began,
implicitly, to announce that the
president was no longer omnipotent and
to presage a kind of vulnerability in
this administration.
Okay, so, take us back to that time
during the late summer when this started
to emerge. When did all of this start to
feel distinct to you?
Yeah, I can place a date on it. That
date is September 10th of this year,
when Charlie Kirk was assassinated.
Kirk, the head of Turning Point USA, was
not only a conservative activist, but a
confidant of the president. And to be
clear, Natalie, there were already
fissures in the movement. There was
disquiet over the president's
intransigence regarding his refusal to
release the Epstein files. Yep.
>> There was concern relating to the
president's decision to bomb nuclear
facilities in Iran. And Charlie Kirk was
unable to tamp down altogether those
growing concerns. I want to try to
address the issue that many people in
our audience are emailing us about. I'm
of course talking about the Epstein
situation. What Kirk was able to do was
to modulate criticisms of the president.
>> Everyone knows my opinion about the
Epstein thing. I I I would love to see
the DOJ move to unseal the grand jury
testimony. I think that would be a big
win. To say externally, I think that we
should release the Epstein files. And
once it became evident to Kirk where the
president stood on this, that he didn't
want to hear right-wing influencers
talking about the subject of Epstein
anymore, Kirk was able to expertly pivot
away from him pressing for the release
of the files to saying, I'm going to
trust
Kash Patel, Dan Bongino, J.D. Vance.
It's their ball. It's their possession.
I have full faith in the
administration's ability to look into
this matter. I've said my peace. And
that viewpoint became the prevailing
talking point amongst figures on the
right. I'm going to trust my friends in
the government to do what needs to be
done. I've said So, this was the unique
skill of Kirk to enforce a kind of
discipline in the overall message of the
right. People looked to Kirk in that
regard. And correspondingly then, when
he was gunned down on September the
10th, that discipline almost immediately
began to give way. And without him, it
began to feel like the conservative
movement or the MAGA movement was not so
much cast adrift, but reverberating with
all of these tensions.
So, Robert, where do you first see the
impact of that loss on MAGA? Like,
what's the first example of these
divisions that were bubbling up starting
to spill out in the open after Kirk's
death?
I think the first
moment at which these discontents,
disagreements became very public was
when Tucker Carlson hosted on his show
the white nationalist Nick Fuentes.
Fuentes had been considered a sort of
verboten figure in the conservative
movement, a guy they very much wanted to
keep at the margins because he has
casually issued some unabashedly
anti-Semitic and racist and sexist
commentary. He has suggested that
[clears throat] the numbers don't add up
when it comes to 6 million Jews
perishing in the Holocaust. He has said
outright that blacks were better off
under Jim Crow than they are today. He
has made all sorts of obnoxious
statements regarding women and how they
should
essentially be used as chattel. And most
of all, he has not just spoken
critically of Israel in the Israeli
government, but he has honed in on what
he calls the problem of organized Jewry
in America and has been unapologetic in
his belief that Jews are a problem,
unassimilable and incorrigible in their
unwillingness to assimilate, and that
that presents America with its foremost
problem. And so, for Carlson, who is
arguably the most influential
conservative voice
a person who remains very close to
President Trump through the thick and
thin of their disagreements, and who is
especially close to Vice President J.D.
Vance, to be offering Nick Fuentes an
opportunity to air his bigoted musings
was the reason why so many people viewed
this interview with great alarm.
Let's just slow that down for a moment.
Can you tell us about Nick Fuentes? Who
is he? Sure. Nick Fuentes is a
27-year-old
right-wing influencer who had been more
or less on the scene since 2017.
He was an early and loud supporter of
President Trump, but not one of any
particular consequence. In 2017, he
began to pop up in the media because at
the Unite the Right rally in
Charlottesville, Virginia, that included
the notorious chance, "You will not
replace us. Jews will not replace us."
The torch carriers, yeah. Yes, Fuentes
was among them. So, he began to gain
some traction then,
but by and large was held at bay from
the right, and that continued really to
be the case even when he had dinner with
Kanye West with President Trump at
Mar-a-Lago. These were the sort of
sporadic appearances by Fuentes, but he
was still viewed as not a major figure.
And yet, at the same time, right, Trump
didn't disavow Fuentes. He didn't
condemn him after that infamous lunch.
He kind of said something like, "I
didn't know who this guy was. I didn't
invite him." But, there was no direct
disavowal. No, and that's a salient
point, Natalie. Trump's refusal to say,
"And by the way, had I known, I would
never have brought him, you know, at
Mar-a-Lago."
was very much in keeping with the
statements made by Marjorie Taylor
Greene, the congresswoman from Georgia,
and Congressman Paul Gosar when each of
them in 2021 and 2022 appeared in Nick
Fuentes's America First conferences. So,
what's going on here? Why the refusal to
condemn Fuentes outwardly? What that's
about is that they all recognize that
Fuentes, for whatever else he was or
wasn't, commanded a sizable following of
young, male, almost entirely white,
disaffected conservatives, which is a
key part of the Trump coalition.
>> Mhm. And no one wished to condemn
Fuentes for fear of condemning his
followers. Right. They don't want to
kick him out of the tent. That's right.
They want him out of the tent, but they
still want his people. And so, it's he's
presented the conservative movement with
something of a conundrum throughout.
Mainly then, the view of Fuentes was,
hopefully, he will just go away, and
these young disaffected male
conservatives will find another big
brother figure. So, that was the state
of play until [snorts] around August and
early September of this year, when
Tucker Carlson happened to make a
sidelong comment about Fuentes on his
show saying that Fuentes was just some
kid living in his basement saying
obnoxious things. And Fuentes saw that
as an opportunity to issue days and days
of rebuttals on his own podcast, which
in turn really ratcheted up his
following
>> Mhm. and brought attention not just to
Fuentes vis-à-vis Carlson, but Fuentes
in general. And all of the podcasters on
the right began to talk about this
dust-up between those two. And so,
finally, Carlson himself decided
and was convinced, frankly, by people
who were friends of his who talked to
him and said, "You know, you're
underestimating this guy, Fuentes. He
actually has a really sizable
following." And Carlson decided then to
have him on his show. Nick Fuentes,
thank you for doing this.
>> Yeah, thank you for having me.
>> to meet you. I've heard about you. Mhm.
I've heard about you. So, What? Thank
you. Um And it was this very sort of
genial 2 hours. You're one of those
people, one of the reasons I wanted to
meet you is you're one of those people
who is defined by clips. Yes.
>> And I'm one of those people also.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> So, I get it, but in which Carlson, in
effect, slid the microphone in front of
Fuentes and let him riff on. So, I'm
going to just shut up,
and you tell me what you actually
believe.
>> Yeah. Well, and and listen, I mean, and
I appreciate you saying that because
it's
that's just a reality of the media
environment we're in. So, if you I don't
expect you to know all my views, but I
mean, as far as the Jews are concerned,
Now, why did Tucker Carlson do this?
Well, you know, why
>> Yeah. That's my question, exactly. Sure.
Well, and I think that the answer to
that, Natalie, is that he was finding
common cause in Fuentes because Carlson
himself, over the past year, had become
increasingly anti-Israel, or as he would
put it, anti-Israeli government. I
always thought it's great to criticize
and it's question like our relationship
with Israel because it's insane and it
hurts us. We get nothing out of it. I
completely agree with you there. that
the Israeli government has been the tail
that has wagged the dog of American
affairs for far too long. I've always
thought I have the most world's most
moderate position on Israel.
Don't hate Israel. Just don't want to
get involved in their wars. Don't want
to pay for this. Don't want to pay for
abortion on demand in a foreign country.
Sorry.
When we're cutting food stamps on our
own, like that's outrageous. It's not
America first. while insisting that he
abhors anti-Semitism. What I do think is
bad, just objectively bad and
destructive, is the all Jews are guilty
or all anybody is guilty of anything cuz
that's just like not true. And but by
and large, he was very accommodating
towards Fuentes's view, which was and is
unambiguously
anti-Semitic. Like I said, you cannot
actually divorce Israel and the neocons
and all all of those things that you
talk about from Jewishness.
There had never really been anyone of
Tucker Carlson's stature who had spoken
to Fuentes before on the air. You're
clearly ascendant.
You're enormously talented. You're more
talented than I am,
for sure, as a talker. And to give him
that kind of softball treatment Nick
Fuentes,
thank you very much. Thank you. It's
nice to meet you. Likewise.
It struck so many on the right as really
alarming and inappropriate.
>> [music]
>> Tucker Carlson's a nobody. He got famous
on Fox. That's it. Mark Levin, the
right-wing broadcaster, denounced
Carlson. Nick Fuentes is gum on the
bottom of our shoe. Tucker Carlson is a
bleeding hemorrhoid on the body politic.
They're not MAGA. They're not
conservative.
Today,
Tucker Carlson is the most dangerous
anti-Semite in America. The congressman,
Randy Fine, said as well that [music]
Carlson's remarks and his amiable
treatment of Fuentes had no place in the
conservative movement. Tucker is not
MAGA.
And in particular, the well-known
right-wing podcaster, Ben Shapiro of The
Daily Wire. Shapiro himself is an
Orthodox Jew. He made no bones about it.
The issue here isn't that Tucker Carlson
had Nick Fuentes on his show last week.
He has every right to do that, of
course. The issue here is that Tucker
Carlson decided to normalize and fluff
Nick Fuentes. This is anti-Semitism. It
is not cancellation to refuse to signal
boost Hitler's supporters like [music]
Nick Fuentes. It is not cancellation to
criticize Tucker Carlson for
rhetorically fluffing Nick Fuentes and
other anti-American crackpots.
>> [music]
>> So, this Tucker-Fuentes interview
obviously touched a nerve over divisions
on the question of the US relationship
with Israel and anti-Semitism and
whether there is tolerance for blatant
anti-Semitism in the conservative
movement. And I'm curious where Trump
sits in all of this, Robert, because
he's obviously maintained a very close
alliance with Israel, but he's also been
known to have a meal with Nick Fuentes.
So, where is Trump on this, and what
does this whole saga tell us about his
vulnerability on this issue?
Yeah, it's a great question, Natalie.
And on the one hand, I think that Trump
has been [clears throat] one of the most
pro-Israel presidents we've seen. On the
other hand, has at no point denounced
Fuentes, nor for that matter has Vice
President J.D. Vance, despite the fact
that Fuentes has routinely insulted not
only Vance, but Vance's wife and her
family, who are from India. So, there is
a permission structure, seemingly, for
bigotry and anti-Semitism to be aired
out in the conservative movement, which
makes a lot of people on the right
uncomfortable. But, you mentioned
vulnerability, and I think this is an
important thing to focus on, not just as
it relates to anti-Semitism, but also
how one interprets this administration's
priorities. When the president was
elected largely on keeping our attention
fixed to domestic issues. Now, Nick
Fuentes and Tucker Carlson are able to
reasonably assert that foreign
entanglements have intruded into and in
many ways disrupted those administration
priorities, not just as regards Israel,
but as regards Ukraine and as regards
Venezuela. And it sounds like it's
connected to a kind of broader question
that's being asked about Trump's
priorities in general. The focus on
foreign affairs, on foreign conflicts,
to potentially the detriment of a focus
on domestic issues.
Yes. So, I I talked to Tucker Carlson
about this when I spent a few hours with
him in November.
And Carlson had a theory on this, and he
said, "Look, the truth is is that
President Trump is realizing how
difficult it is to solve a lot of these
intractable domestic issues,
particularly as it relates to
affordability. You know, you can you can
talk about the price of eggs or
something or even the price of gas, but
overall there is a real affordability
crisis in America and it's tough to do
anything about that. Carlson said that
by contrast, you know, you can go bomb a
nuclear site in Iran knowing Iran
probably isn't going to do anything
about it and you can look heroic and you
can look powerful. And so Trump for all
of his own focus historically on
domestic problems is now realizing it's
easier to be god-like in the foreign
policy arena than at home.
Right. I mean, there's a political logic
to what Carlson is saying here. One of
the main issues driving Trump's election
was the economy. And so I imagine
there's a lot of people who feel like
they voted for him because they expected
Trump as president to have a laser-like
focus on pocketbook issues rather than
on mediating conflicts in far-flung
places, which is something he's done a
lot of in his first year. Right, but in
raising that point Natalie, what you're
doing is essentially
introducing what I think is an important
distinction and that is the distinction
between two slogans by President Trump,
MAGA, Make America Great Again, and
America First. So Make America Great
Again is basically a campaign slogan.
It's inextricably tied to President
Trump. I mean, everyone kind of
understands that what it means is like
America wasn't great when Obama was
president. It became great when Trump
became president. It became terrible
again when Biden was president. Now it's
great again because of Trump. It's to
put it bluntly a personality cult
notion, but it is finally a slogan.
America First is a principle and
defining what America First is is the
kind of thing that's subject to useful
ideological argument.
>> Mhm. I think that Tucker Carlson and
perhaps just as much Congresswoman
Marjorie Taylor Greene have been at the
forefront of saying, "Look, America
First principles have been laid out.
They have been commonly understood by
conservatives, by voters of President
Trump and now the Trump administration
has been wayward, has veered off of
those commitments to Americans."
And at the same time,
you know, spending money on things that
a lot of people took issue with. A
ballroom, for example. Yes, that his own
actions seem to be at variance with his
pledges to put Americans first.
And it's this cognitive dissonance that
began to result in another noticeable
fracture in the party, particularly with
Marjorie Taylor Greene.
And we will talk about her right after
the break. We'll be right back.
>> [music]
>> Robert, you brought up Congresswoman
Marjorie Taylor Greene from Georgia and
her evolution really feels emblematic of
this break with Trump that we're
starting to see among some on the right.
Obviously, she became famous for being
one of Trump's closest allies and now
she has since announced her resignation
from office and said pretty explicitly
that Trump is betraying the movement. So
let's talk about this journey that
Marjorie Taylor Greene has been on.
I mean, Natalie, it is a singular
journey. It represents the most extreme
case of a MAGA loyalist becoming a
dissenting voice to the Trump
administration. But having said that, I
do think that it does reflect in a
broader sense this evolution from
everyone singing with precision from the
MAGA hymnal to now striking discordant
notes and that is [clears throat]
so remarkable given how unflagging a
supporter Greene was of Trump. She
arrived in Washington in early January
of 2021 freshly elected with an
unapologetically
pro-Trump campaign platform expecting
that she would be part of facilitating
President Trump's second term. Instead,
she arrived just a couple of days before
January the 6th with Trump having been
defeated and at a time on the heels of
the Capitol riot when a lot of
Republicans wanted to distance
themselves from the defeated former
president, Marjorie Taylor Greene was
the most vociferous defender of Trump
really in Washington.
>> Right. And continued to be so throughout
his campaign in 2024. When he was at the
Republican National Convention, she sat
by his side on the second day in the
presidential booth and was pledging that
Trump was a gift from God and that she
viewed him in kind of these theological
proportions as someone who would be
saving America. So the beginning of
Trump's second term saw Marjorie Taylor
Greene unflaggingly by his side. But
then alongside her own arc regarding
Trump was her own experience in Congress
when she became increasingly
disillusioned with her own party that
once it had power didn't really do
anything with it. And she began to think
maybe of running for something else,
perhaps senator, perhaps governor of
Georgia and far from getting any
encouragement, the Trump White House
basically threw a wet blanket over that.
She told me that she felt like all of
her loyalty to Trump was amounting to a
one-way street.
>> It wasn't being rewarded.
>> That's correct. Yes. And And so that
sets the stage then I think for what
began to happen over the last two or
three months where she began to be
increasingly disillusioned not just with
the Republican Party, but with President
Trump himself.
And I think that one real flashpoint was
Trump's refusal to release the Epstein
files. This had become an article of
faith amongst the right. The one thing
they could all agree on was that Jeffrey
Epstein was the most heinous sex
trafficker in America. And so to see now
Trump hedging and then saying stop
talking about Epstein, there's no there
there was outrageous to her.
Then during the government shutdown, she
began to go home and she'd talk to her
constituents and they'd say, you know,
"Housing is still unaffordable.
Groceries are still unaffordable. We
thought that the president was going to
do something about this. And why by the
way is he spending all this money in
Israel? And we're seeing this horrible
footage of what's taking place in Gaza."
Greene told me that she began to hear
the G word, genocide,
>> Mhm. by her own constituents and Greene
became the first prominent Republican to
describe what was taking place in Gaza
as a genocide. So Greene began to voice
her concerns very publicly and it's not
just that she voiced them, but it's
where she voiced them.
>> [music]
>> For the very first time on The View, we
are joined by someone you might be
surprised to see here. She went on The
View. Please welcome Congresswoman
Marjorie Taylor Greene.
Which is largely regarded as a a
left-leaning show and the specter of
this right-wing MAGA warrior being on a
show like that was a rather remarkable
one and one frankly that people on the
set of The View were surprised that. I
spoke to one of them who had said that
they were suspecting that Greene would
come in loaded for bear and just rip
into all of them and once again talk
about how great Trump was. Look, I'm
with women, so I feel very comfortable
saying this. I'm really tired of the
pissing contest in Washington, D.C.
between the men. I I really am.
They were not prepared at all for this
really very accommodating individual.
>> And I feel like the government has
failed all of us and it it purely
disgusts me. Who said, "Look, things
have gotten overheated in today's
politics." I represent a district that
is rural manufacturing district,
blue-collar workers and people have been
crushed by decades of failure in
Washington, D.C. And so I have no
problem pointing fingers at everyone.
And
one by one Maybe she'll become a
Democrat, Marjorie.
I feel like I'm sitting next to a
completely different Marjorie Taylor
Greene. The co-hosts on the air
expressed astonishment that this was the
Marjorie Taylor Greene they were seeing.
>> [music]
>> And in addition to The View, Greene was
speaking to other media outlets. Here's
my issue. I'm America First and I don't
apologize for that and I believe
Congress, both Democrats and
Republicans, should be serving the
American people.
Though what she had to say during these
interviews wasn't openly critical of the
administration, implicitly she was
striking a note of disagreement. When
you campaign on America First, it's like
having a restaurant advertising like a
certain type of food and then you don't
deliver America First, you're not going
to have those return customers.
I don't know what happened to Marjorie.
She's a nice woman, but I don't know
what happened. She's lost her way, I
think. And it clearly got under
President Trump's skin. Mhm. Somebody
like Marjorie Taylor Greene who's now
catering to the other side. I don't know
what, you know, I guess she's, you know,
got some kind of an act going, but I'm
surprised at her. But, when somebody
like
>> [clears throat]
>> Marjorie goes over and starts making
statements like that, it shows she
doesn't know. The great umbrage that he
took was expressed finally.
>> Tonight, disagreements between President
Trump and one of his most reliable and
vocal supporters in Congress have taken
an ugly turn. With a posting that he
made on Truth Social. "Marjorie Traitor
Green is a disgrace to our great
Republican Party." [music] he wrote on
social media. In which he called her
Marjorie Traitor Green, belittled her.
"I can't take a ranting lunatics call
every day." end quote. And said that she
was always trying to call him, but that
he had no time for this, that she was
pouting because he hadn't been
supportive of her political ambitions,
but now he not only had had enough of
her. The president even suggested he'd
be open to backing a challenger to her
seat in Congress. He alluded to the
distinct likelihood that he would try to
find a Trump loyalist who would primary
her in her congressional race in 2026.
>> [music]
>> Yeah, I mean, this was a pretty frontal
attack by Trump. So, how does Green
respond? She was deeply upset, most of
all by the label of her as a traitor.
And of course, the implication was that
she was a traitor not just to President
Trump, but to the MAGA movement, but a
traitor to America. And she was really
outraged by that. What she also reacted
to was a torrent of death threats that
came in.
This, in a sense, was not new to Green.
She had gotten death threats really from
early on in taking office. She was being
doxxed, lots of things like that were
happening. They were all happening from
the left, however. Now, she was getting
attacks from what she often described as
her favorite president. Her favorite
president was unleashing, in her view,
these threats.
And it's not just that the threats were
levied against her, they were levied
against her own children. And her
children were named. I know this because
Green told me that and said she was
terrified. So, it was really, really
alarming and scary for her. Wow. And uh
so, this was I was getting all these
texts, by the way, you know, from
friends of mine in the political world
saying, "She's rebranding herself. What
is this about?" And and what is your
sense about what these appearances were
really about? Were they driven by the
feedback she was getting from her
constituents? Was it something else?
Yes, I the former. Tinged also with the
belief of, "What the hell, I've got
nothing to lose. Since when has my
unflagging loyalty paid off for me?" It
hasn't. So, she felt somewhat liberated
from her allegiances to President Trump,
but I think alongside that, she truly
believed what she was saying. She truly
had heard what her constituents had been
telling her, that they were, like her,
taking the president's principle of
America First not just seriously, but
literally. You know, they were saying,
"Hang on, how is it America First to be
um not just supporting Ukraine, but also
Israel? Do we not care about women
who've been victimized by the rich and
powerful? And meanwhile, things are
still expensive. Why isn't the president
out there every day doing something
about this?" These were the tenets of
America First that they believed the
president would be addressing, that
Marjorie Taylor Green was certain he
would be addressing. But, she now began
to have doubts, in part because she was
hearing her constituents raise those
very same doubts.
And not long after,
Hi everyone.
She announces that she's going to
resign.
That's correct.
I've always represented the common
American man and woman as a member of
the House of Representatives, which is
why I've always been despised in
Washington, D.C. and [music] just never
fit in. She did a video that she posted
on X. I ran for Congress in 2020 and
have fought every single day believing
that Make America Great Again meant
America First.
It was a posting that took even her
close allies by surprise. America First
should mean America First and only
Americans First, with no other foreign
country ever being attached to America
First in our halls of government. It
became, I think, obvious to most, if not
all, that it was really her
renouncing a movement that had strayed
from its core America First principle. I
do not want my sweet district to have to
endure a hurtful and hateful primary
against me by the president that we all
fought for. And that she would be
fighting, if she were to be reelected,
on behalf of a president who now
disliked her and who had done her great
injury, but also who no longer was the
embodiment of America First. And so,
what was the point of [music] that?
I have to ask, Robert,
isn't the fact that Green stepped down
over this dust-up a sign that Trump is
actually stronger politically than we
maybe thinking? I mean, I think a lot of
people might see this incident as him
winning. He still, at the end of the
day, had the political weight to drive
one of his critics out of political
office. Historically, that has been the
case, just as you've described it,
Natalie, that this is a show of Trump's
power. But, to say that now would be to
ignore the atmospherics, that all of
this is taking place at a point in which
Trump's approval rating is near the
lowest that it's ever been. At a time
when people on the right, like Tucker
Carlson, are beginning to, you know,
speak with
a great deal of bluntness, with real
candor, about the Trump administration's
misguided priorities. So, if this was
just crushing the one lone dissenter and
everybody then issuing a chorus on the
right of good riddance to her, we all
love President Trump, it'd be one thing,
but that's not actually what's taken
place. She simply said, "Trump's White
House is not doing what they said they
were going to do." And that sentiment is
one that is beginning to gain a lot of
traction on the right. It's extending to
the Trump coalition that got him
reelected in 2024. I don't think that
his hardcore base has deserted him. But,
the bottom is really fallen out of his
support amongst independents, and they
were key to his victory, as were young
people and black males and Latino males
as well.
Now, whether it's because of their own
experiences or because they happen to be
listening to Tucker Carlson, to Nick
Fuentes, and to other influencers, or a
combination, the polling data clearly
shows that these people who were so
crucial to Trump's victory in 2024 are
starting to move away from him in
really, really significant numbers. And
so, even if his core base remains
steadfast, the clear and present danger
for the Trump administration is that he
no longer has a solid coalition of the
type that brought him victory.
I just want to say hello, Pennsylvania,
and I'm thrilled to be back.
>> [cheering]
>> It is incredible
>> Robert, I want to end by asking if you
get the sense that Trump is actually
listening, perhaps, to the concerns that
are being raised by voters and by people
like Marjorie Taylor Green. He's just
kicked off this new domestic tour, the
purpose of which is to go around the
country and talk about issues of
affordability. paychecks, you're getting
lower prices,
bigger paychecks, we're getting
>> And that does feel like an
acknowledgement in some sense that he
knows he has a problem here. Yes, it's
true. He certainly absorbed this. I
think that his testiness has been on
full display. They said, "He should be
traveling. He should focus on home."
What the hell do you think I'm doing?
The posture is not one of, "Voters, I
hear you. I feel your pain." Far from
it. Instead, he has been dismissive of
the word affordability. They use the
word affordability,
and that's their only word. They say,
"Affordability."
But, I think most of all, Natalie, what
has annoyed Trump is that his voters had
been generally trusting of everything
that Trump said he was doing or was
about to do during his first 100 days.
But, the anxieties that his constituents
are feeling is now impossible to hide,
and I think that that has created a real
defensiveness with Trump. You know, the
stupid people, they say, "He should be
leaving our country." Yeah, let's sit
around and twiddle our thumbs.
So, will this tour that Trump is
embarking on help mend the schisms in
the Republican Party and restore him as
the one and only voice in the
conservative movement? Possibly.
But, I do think that what we've seen
take place
is an emergence of voices who dare to
hold the president accountable to his
America First pledge. And as various
people joust over just what that pledge
should be,
the fractures that ensue are really
going to be impossible to heal.
It's hard to imagine
what would happen to bring all of those
pieces back together?
Well, Robert, thank you so much for your
time. Sure thing, Natalie.
>> [music]
>> We'll be right back.
>> Here's what else you need to know today.
It's been a an interesting day
from the standpoint of news.
President Trump announced Wednesday
afternoon that the US had seized an oil
tanker off the coast of Venezuela. Large
tanker, very large.
Largest one ever seized, actually.
The seizure was a clear escalation in
the administration's pressure [music]
campaign against Nicolas Maduro, the
president of Venezuela.
Trump didn't offer any additional
details about the operation, [music] but
US officials who spoke on the condition
of anonymity said the action was the
result of deliberate planning and that
there were no casualties.
And the Federal Reserve voted on
Wednesday to lower interest rates by a
quarter of a percentage [music] point.
It was the fourth straight vote in a row
that wasn't backed by all members, a
mark [music] of just how fractured the
central bank has become as it struggles
to balance the risks of rising
unemployment [music] and sticky
inflation.
>> [music]
>> Today's episode was produced by Caitlyn
O'Keefe and Eric Krupke with help from
Alex [music] Stern.
It was edited by Rachel Quester with
help from Paige Cowett. Fact-checked by
Susan Lee. Contains music by Marion
Lozano, Alicia Eubanks, Dan Powell, and
Diane Wong and was engineered [music]
by Chris Wood.
That's it for The Daily. [music] I'm
Natalie Kitroeff. See you tomorrow.